---
layout: post
title:  Single Axis Seesaw Attitude Control
date:   2023-05-15 16:55:55
description: Design and attitude control of a single axis seesaw with motor and propeller.
tags: control instrumentation MATLAB SIMULINK
categories: Coursework
---

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/seesaw/gnrl_view.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    General view of the system.
</div>


## Contents
- [Summary](#summary)
- [Media](#media)


<hr>

<a id="summary"></a>

## Summary

### What

As final project of the the course **Dynamic Systems and Control**, an attitude control system for a single axis seesaw with motor and propeller was designed. Classic control algorithms such as P, PI and PID control were applied. 

### How

We employed recycled material from previous projects to build the system. The transfer function was identified using the System Identification Toolbox from **MATLAB**. **Arduino** was used to read the angle of the seesaw and send the control signal through PWM to the motor driver. The microcontroller was connected to a laptop responsible of computing the control algorithm in **Simulink** and sending the response signal back.  Parameters were tuned using trial and error method.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/seesaw/electric_sch.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Electrical schematic of the project.
</div>


### Results

We were able to compare proportional, integral and derivative effects on the controller. The final system was capable of reaching a given set point in an acceptable time frame, withstanding external alterations.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/seesaw/ControlPID.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    System response with PID control for given set point.
</div>

<hr>

<a id="media"></a>

## Media

Demonstration of the system operation.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/X2DOOrEaPZk?si=DkvwiUdC-tEzrhZ_" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<hr>